Hi all my names mawson and my summer project is on the optimisation of galaxy 
formation and evolution models with rodrigo tobar.

The formation of galaxies is one of the grandest scale operations that occurs in our 
universe, and knowing how they form and evolve over time is of great interest 
to the scientific community. Using theoretical models based on the physics we know
we can simulate the formation of galaxies and then check the results against what 
we can observe today to see if our assumptions and models of the universe ring true

There are a few ways in which galaxy evolution can be simulated. One could run a 
hydrodynamical simulation, which simulates the formation of galaxies from particulate
matter. This method is very computationally heavy even by todays standards so we'd 
really like to run it only once. This presents a problem, because we aren't 100% sure
of the physical interplay on such a scale. So ideally we'd like to be able to test a 
vast range of models and parameters to see how they affect the end result. This is
where semi analytical models begin to shine. A semi-analytical model works within a 
dark matter scaffolding that circumvents the need to simulate galaxies at the particle
level. This dark matter scaffolding itself must be initialised at a particle level 
but because it is only affected by gravity we dont need to test different models so
it need only be constructed once and the result used again and again. 

One such simulation is the millennium simulation which I'm sure we all know. Now
its not the one I'm actually using but it had easily available pretty pictures, so
near enough is good enough. These simulations evolve the position of dark matter 
particles over time under gravities influence and then take snapshots of the particles
at predetermined intervals. These snapshots form the basis for constructing our 
scaffolding 

So how do we build the rest, well first we need to identify where galaxies
might form within our DM. These will be overdense regions where gravity is 
pulling in the necessary baryonic matter. We use a program called VELOCIraptor to 
identify where these overdense regions are, for example it might take a look at 
these snapshots here and find these groups of DM particles. Now this is in and of 
itself not the most useful thing, so next we apply an algorithm called TREEFROG to 
link these groups between snapshots, effectively tracking the groups through time, a
process that is much quicker than trying to track all the individual particles. 
The linking of these groups in time forms whats known as a merger tree, which shows
how certain groups combine to form larger and larger DM halos. These merger trees 
are the aforementioned scaffolding. 


